[@7abstrax](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OGjv9GDd504&lc=Ugx1e2R12RMdaJdViyl4AaABAg)

i've read most of the comments here, and skimmed through some on your other videos on kill gameplay. i'm just gonna preface that there is a solid chance i've misunderstood some things here. especially because i wrote something up, deleted, and now a day later am writing this up because it came back into my mind.all of this to say, i might be strawmanning on accident, and i apologize if i am. mostly, these paragraphs are a very scattered collection of my thoughts, so excuse me having things everywhere.

what if "gameplay" (being not limited to actual games) is a form of expression? i think you could compare for example, fighting games or skateboarding, to sudoku: it's all busy work that doesn't get you anything outside of you doing it, right? but, i personally don't see what's stoppine one from expressing theirselves via gameplay. fighting games for example are likely more limited than uh, painting, but i don't believe that the fact that they have some level of "objective goal" disallows them from being expressive, nor does it make them inherently less meaningful. afaik, a medium being restricting in some way often doesn't make it not art. haikus and photography are the first 2 that come to mind: because of their inherent rules, they can often find depth that wouldn't otherwise exist. so, if i spend many many hours in a game, and find an approach that is unique and is derived from my experiences with it, what makes it different from haikus? 

one thing you bring up is how "gameplay" can give you a false sense of purpose, and how this is unhealthy. i understand the idea, but "gameplay" isn't alone in having potential negatives. let's say for this hypothetical that painting (art) is objectively higher than sudoku (gameplay). consequently, painting is much more personal and expressive. so, what if you're going through a rough patch of performing your art? for a lot of people, this will begin to eat at them, much more than sudoku ever could; criticism feels that much worse, there's more emotional risk; the ambiguity of it can be very frustrating, the ability to spend so much time on a work only to hate it in the end; the pressure to give meaning to painting can sometimes strip away that very meaning. all of those are negative things which someone engaging in "gameplay", specifically more singleplayer focused stuff, deals with on a much lower or nonexistent level. 

the biggest thing though? how is an artist seeking approval for their art any different than someone gaining false purpose through gameplay? you could say there are artists who don't need approval, but this of course goes the other way for gameplay too.

all of this is said without me bringing up that i believe gameplay has intrinsic value, since from what i understand you simply disagree. something something the pursuit of mastery itself is enjoyable, but i think that's exactly what you mean with saying that gameplay can give a false sense of purpose. i can actually understand this on some level too, but i think insinuating that people should look to find something with more purpose is oppressing. if someone enjoys "gameplay" more than another comparable hobby, say playing an instrument, without harming their overall goals, i don't see what's wrong with that. to say that gameplay shouldn't be purused because it isn't as much of a useful skill as insert other hobby is wrong. if hypothetically we were to say that gameplay is objectively lesser than art, i think it's still worth it in the same way that going for a walk or driving around is worth it. as a side note, i'd say you downplayed how much gameplay or puzzles can actually teach skills otherwise not found in something comparable like math. pattern recognition, spatial reasoning, lateral thinking, memory, w/e.  

another thing is "art" (being more broad now) typically has more delayed gratification. whether this is a good or bad thing varies from person to person, and is exactly why i think saying that most people should aim to strive more towards art. i think there are too many factors out of one's control that can dictate how they feel from delayed gratification. from my comprehension thus far of kill gameplay, i think you have a skewed perception of people and enjoyment. this is normal though, and i'm not criticizing you for having a skewed view, everyone does. but, just because moving away from "gameplay" has added more value into your life doesn't mean that it would for everyone, even if hypothetically everyone that can't engage in delayed gratification the same as others had their handicaps removed.

procedural generation. i'll skip past the part where it can be good for gameplay, since you addressed it in another comment, but there's another important part. within a set budget of time, money, and will, i believe a game using proc gen often would not be better with more handcrafted levels, even if they were objectively better than the proc gen. imo, the things potentially lost in pursuit of trying to see the developers vision more clearly via handcrafted levels would more often than not be a net loss. you kinda brought up ludonarrative harmony without specifically mentioning it: it's fine if you don't like it, because it has its pros and cons, but to outright detest it (from what i could tell?) feels wrong to me. there really are methods of storytelling unique to it. an easy example is lobotomy corporation, although i haven't played it in a while, so i'll bring up more vague stuff, srry. basically, most of the gameplay either oppresses you or threatens resets upon you. the game is already brutally challenging, so to not truly suffer you'd want to be efficient, but being efficient often means losing empathy you will have to sacrifice allies, you will have to abide by cruel rules from anomalies, even just researching an anomaly can chain into death. you'll let it all collapse so you can reset and redo it and reset and redo it and.. oh, resetting, that's (without spoilers) a big part of the story. the ai assistants forget not just their past but also their trauma, and must relearn the past to progress and relive the trauma many times; the facility (narratively) itself is part of a "script", running over and over again until it (plot point) is perfect, mirroring exactly what you'll be doing c:. you have to remember your past mistakes to progress, just as they must remember their trauma to progress. yup, that's a lot of yapping, basically what i'm saying is that ludonarrative harmony absolutely has a place and effects unique to it, and thus *the gameplay has a purpose*. 


i'll again have to apologize for how scattered all of that was. i wrote this half a paragraph at a time bouncing around in notepad, so that's half of why there are a few contradictions. in short, i believe "art" and "gameplay" are 2 sides of the same coin. i'm very open for discussion; have a good day.